Updated setup documentation on Nextcloud integration (#11010)
opf/openproject: docs/system-admin-guide/integrations/nextcloud/README.md

---
sidebar_navigation:
  title: Nextcloud integration setup
  priority: 600
description: Nextcloud integration setup
keywords: integrations, apps, Nextcloud
---

> <<<<<<< Updated upstream

Reviewer: These lines with <<<< are a result of errors related to GitHub fetching/merging, I think.

![nextcloud_reset_OPOAuth](3_2_06 -NC_OP_OAuth_Replace.png)

![nextcloud_reset_NCOAuth](3_2_07-NC__OAuth_Replace.png)

![openproject_reset_OAuth](3_4_03-OP_Replace_Alert.png)

## How to delete a file storage integration

As an administrator, you can always delete the integration to Nextcloud using the **Delete** button in  the OpenProject settings or the **Reset** button in the Nextcloud settings.

> **Important:** If you perform this action, the integration will be reset and deleted and all settings and user connections that were created will be deleted. This means that should you want to reconfigure the integration, you will need complete the entire setup process once again.

## Using the integration

Once the file storage is added and enabled for projects, your users are able to take full advantage of the Nextcloud-OpenProject integration. For more information on how link Nextcloud files to work packages in OpenProject and access linked work packages in Nextcloud, please refer to the [Nextcloud integration user guide](../../../user-guide/nextcloud-integration/).

> .

Reviewer 2: There's an unhappily single dot. :)

Author: The two things are already solved. Thanks @as-op

---
sidebar_navigation:
  title: Nextcloud integration setup
  priority: 600
description: Nextcloud integration setup
keywords: integrations, apps, Nextcloud
---

# OpenProject and Nextcloud integration setup 

> The integration between OpenProject and Nextcloud has the potential to improve the productivity of all users. It combines the strengths of Nextcloud, the market-leading collaboration platform, and OpenProject, the leading open source project management software.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, "market leading collaboration platform". Isn't OpenProject a collaboration platform, too? Shouldn't we focus on the file sharing/serving/hosting bit of Nextcloud?

Author: Hi @wielinde. This. is related with how we describe the integration everywhere. Let's discuss it with @birthe so we are all in the same page and I will update it afterwards.

Reviewer: Agreed, I'd recommend the same phrasing as the other doc: "It combines the strengths of [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/), the world’s most-deployed on-premises collaborative file storage platform and [OpenProject](https://www.openproject.org/), the leading free and open source project management and collaboration software."

> The integration between OpenProject and Nextcloud has the potential to improve the productivity of all users. It combines the strengths of Nextcloud, the world’s most deployed on-premises collaborative file storage platform and OpenProject, the leading free and open source project management and collaboration software

Reviewer 3: @marcalcobe @psatyal Tiny detail: What is the right genitive tick in English? The one used here is not the one I have on my US English keyboard. Seems suspicious to me. 

```suggestion
The integration between OpenProject and Nextcloud has the potential to improve the productivity of all users. It combines the strengths of Nextcloud, the world's most deployed on-premises collaborative file storage platform and OpenProject, the leading free and open source project management and collaboration software
```

Reviewer: @wielinde Indeed, the one you've replaced it with is more standard; don't know where the original came from. Commiting. (For reference: I have an ANSI keyboard to with an "ABC - Extended" setup). (Edited)

> The integration enables users to keep an eye on ongoing project activities directly in their Nextcloud instance and link their Nextcloud files to OpenProject work packages. To learn more about how to use the integration, please refer to the [Nextcloud user guide](../../../user-guide/nextcloud-integration/)

Reviewer 3: If  with "keep an eye on the ongoing project activities" you mean the dashboard, then I would deprioritize that aspect and focus more on "Where are the files that I need to be able to complete a task?" and "Where do I put the final files after completing a task?".

Author: Hi @wielinde. Sounds good to me. Also might change after we agree on a common description.

Reviewer: Agreed, will update.

## Step-by-step setup instructions

> The integration is available starting with Nextcloud 20 and OpenProject 12.2. To be able to configure this integration, you need to be an administrator in both Nextcloud and OpenProject instances.

Reviewer 3: For integrating with OpenProject 12.2 the minimal version of Nextcloud is 22. The minimal version version of the Nextcloud app is 2.0.0

Author: I will update this information also in this documentation page.

Reviewer: I'll add this information

> **1. Add OpenProject integration app and connect the instance** - in Nextcloud

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**1. Add the "OpenProject integration" app and connect the instance** - in Nextcloud
```

> For integrating with OpenProject 12.2, the minimum required version of Nextcloud is 22. For the desktop Nextcloud application, the minimum supported version is 2.0.0. To be able to configure this integration, you need to have administrator privileges in both your Nextcloud and OpenProject instances.

Reviewer 3: AFAIK Nextcloud calls their plugins "Apps" and not "applications". 

```suggestion
For integrating with OpenProject 12.2, the minimum required version of Nextcloud is 22. For the Nextcloud app  "OpenProject integration" that extends your Nextcloud installation, the minimum required version is 2.0.0. To be able to configure this integration, you need to have administrator privileges in both your Nextcloud and OpenProject instances.
```

Reviewer: Ah, good point @wielinde. I would remove the comma after 

> integration",

Looks like I can modify your suggested change, let me try it.

> To activate your integration to OpenProject in Nextcloud, navigate to the built-in app store under your user name in _Your apps_. You can use the search field in the top right corner to look for OpenProject integration app. Click the button **Download and enable**.

Reviewer 3: What do you mean with "under your user name"? Do you mean the menu that opens when you click your user avatar on the top right corner in Nextcloud?

Author: Hi @wielinde. I didn't touch this step as it was coming from the previous documentation but i updated it now.

Reviewer: Adding the word "menu" to make avoid potential confusion.

> To activate your integration to OpenProject in Nextcloud, navigate to the built-in app store in the menu under your user name by clicking on _Your apps_. You can use the search field in the top right corner to look for the OpenProject integration app. Click the button **Download and enable**.

Reviewer 3: There is no user name in the Nextcloud header. There is only an avatar.

```suggestion
To activate your integration to OpenProject in Nextcloud, navigate to the built-in app store. You find the app store in the menu that opens when you click your round user avatar in the top right corner. In the app store click on _Integrations_. There you will find the "OpenProject integration" app. You can also use the search field in the top right corner to look for the OpenProject integration app. Once you have found the app, click the button **Download and enable**.
```

![Nextcloud_app_store](Nextcloud_app_store.png)

> Once the OpenProject integration app is downloaded and enabled, you can access it through the side menu and enter the host URL of your desired OpenProject instance.

Reviewer 3: Might be important to mention that you find it within the settings.

Author: I will add this to the documentation as its much clearer.

Reviewer: Added this precision.

> Once the OpenProject integration app is downloaded and enabled, you can access it from within the Settings page, via the the side menu. Start by entering the *host URL* of your desired OpenProject instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the OpenProject integration app is downloaded and enabled, you can access it from within the _Settings_ page, via the side menu. Start by entering the _Host URL_ of your desired OpenProject instance.
```

![Nextcloud_host](3_2_01 -NC_Step_1.png)

> Click on the **Save** button and open your OpenProject instance in a new tab.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click on the **Save** button and open your OpenProject instance in a new browser tab.
```

**2. Introduce the basic information of your integration** - in OpenProject

Make sure you are logged in as an administrator in your OpenProject instance. Navigate to *File storages* from the Administration page. To start configuring your new Nextcloud integration, click on the **Add (+)** button to add a new file storage.

![Storage_index](3_0_00-OP_OAuth_Empty_Index.png)

> By default, the storage *provider type* is set to Nextcloud; this does not need to be modified. To proceed, enter a *name* to your Nextcloud storage. This will be visible to all the users using it. We highly recommended choosing a clear and distinct name that allows users to differentiate it from other potential file storages integrations in the future. You will also need to set the *Host URL* of your Nextcloud instance, including _https://_ bit of the address.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the storage *Provider type* is set to _Nextcloud_; this does not need to be modified. To proceed, enter a *Name* to your Nextcloud storage. This name will be visible to all the users using it. We highly recommended choosing a clear and distinct name that allows users to differentiate it from other potential file storages integrations in the future. You will also need to set the *Host URL* of your Nextcloud instance. The *Host URL* is the web address of your Nextcloud instance. Make sure you include the _https://_ bit of the address.
```

![Storage_basic_information](3_0_01-OP_General_Info.png)

> Once you fill in the mandatory fields, click on the **Save and continue setup** button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you filled in all mandatory fields, click on the **Save and continue setup** button.
```

Reviewer: Just a note here: "fill in" is gramattically correct, you do not use the past tense with when the sentence begins with "once (something something). (I don't know why, actually 🤔)... So we should revert if commited :) @marcalcobe, @wielinde.

**3. Generate and copy the OpenProject OAuth values** - in OpenProject and Nextcloud

> In this step, the *OpenProject OAuth values* are generated automatically. These values are needed to permit OpenProject to connect to Nextcloud. You will need to copy them from the Nextcloud integration window in a new tab (without exiting or closing your OpenProject tab) and pasting them in the respective fields under _OpenProject OAuth settings_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this step, the *OpenProject OAuth values* are generated automatically. These values are needed to permit OpenProject to connect to Nextcloud. If you have not done so yet, we recommend you to best have two browser tabs open, the current one with OpenProject and the former one with Nextcloud. Now copy the two *OpenProject OAuth values* from the OpenProject tab to the respective fields in the Nextcloud tab. Simply paste them into the respective _OpenProject OAuth settings_ fields.
```

Reviewer: "We recommend you have" (vs. "to best have").

> > **Important**: The *OpenProjects OAuth values (client ID and client secret)* are not accessible again after you close the window. Please make sure you copy the generated values you see in the _Nextcloud OpenProject Integration settings_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Important**: The *OpenProjects OAuth values (client ID and client secret)* are not accessible again after you close the window. Please make sure you copy the generated values you see in the _Nextcloud OpenProject Integration settings_. Treat these values with care. Do not save them in any public place. Simply treat them as carefully as you would treat an important password.
```

![OP_OAuth_values](3_1_00-OP_OAuth_application_details.png)

![Nextcloud_OP_OAuth_values](3_2_03-NC_Step_2.png)

Once you have copied the values, click on the **Save** button to proceed to the next step in Nextcloud.

**4. Generate and copy the Nextcloud OAuth values** - in Nextcloud and OpenProject

> As in the previous step, the *OAuth values* are generated automatically, but this time on the Nextcloud end. These values are needed to allow the connection from Nextcloud to OpenProject, so you will need to once again copy them here and paste them in OpenProject (without closing the Nextcloud tab). If you had not clicked the **Done. Continue setup** button in the previous step, you can do so now to proceed to the screen where you will be able to paste the Nextcloud OAuth values in OpenProject.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As in the previous step, the *OAuth values* are generated automatically, but this time on the Nextcloud end. These values are needed to allow the connection from Nextcloud to OpenProject, so you will need to once again copy them here and paste them in OpenProject (without closing the Nextcloud tab). If you had not clicked the **Done. Continue setup** button in the OpenProject tab in the previous step, you can do so now to proceed to the screen where you will be able to paste the Nextcloud OAuth values in OpenProject.
```

![Nextcloud_NC_OAuth_values](3_2_04-NC_Step_3.png)

![OpenProject_NC_OAuth_values](3_3_01-OP_OAuth_application_details.png)

Once these values are entered, you can click the button **Save and complete setup** in your OpenProject tab and the **Yes, I have copied these values** in Nextcloud. Once this is done, your instance configuration is complete.

![OpenProject_success](3_4_00 - OAuth - OP Success.png)

![Nextcloud_success](3_2_05-NC_Success.png)

**5. Enable the file storages module and activate it in the desired project** - in OpenProject

> Now that the integration setup is complete and ready to use, there is just one more step for you as administrator: you need to activate the *File storages* module and specify for which projects you would like to enable your new Nextcloud integration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that the integration setup is complete and ready to use, there is just one more step for you as administrator: in every project in which you want to use the integration you need to activate the *File storages* module and add your recently configured file storage to the project.
```

To activate the module, go to the **Project settings** in the desired project and access the **Modules** entry in the side menu. There, activate the *File storages* module. Once this is done, a new menu entry called **File storages** appears at the bottom of the side menu, where you can select your new Nextcloud integration.

![module_activation](Settings_modules.png)

> ![settings_files_storages](Settings_files_storages.png)

Reviewer 3: @marcalcobe Here we could link to the user guide, in the sense of "All further steps are explained in the User guide"

Author: Hi @wielinde, @psatyal added this information in his last commit.

## How to reset your OAuth values

If you need to reset the values of the Nextcloud integration (as an administrator), you can always reset the OAuth values from both sides of the integration by clicking on the **Reset OAuth values** (in Nextcloud) or **Replace OAuth values** (in OpenProject) buttons.

> **Important**: When you reset/replace these values, you will need to update the configuration with the new OAuth credentials from the side you are reseting. This will also require all users to re-authorize OpenProject to access their Nextcloud account by logging in again.

![nextcloud_reset_OPOAuth](3_2_06 -NC_OP_OAuth_Replace.png)

![nextcloud_reset_NCOAuth](3_2_07-NC__OAuth_Replace.png)

![openproject_reset_OAuth](3_4_03-OP_Replace_Alert.png)

## How to delete a file storage integration

> As an administrator, you can always delete the integration to Nextcloud using the **Delete** button in OpenProject settings or the **Reset** button in Nextcloud settings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As an administrator, you can always delete the integration to Nextcloud using the **Delete** button in  the OpenProject settings or the **Reset** button in the Nextcloud settings.
```

> > **Important:** If you perform this action, the integration will be reset and deleted and all settings and user connections that were created will be deleted. This means that should you want to reconfigure the integration, you will need complete the entire setup process once again.

Reviewer 3: @marcalcobe Hmm, the delete in OpenProject deletes all file links. The reset button in Nextcloud just deletes the connections but not the links. We may want to be very clear what does what. So we better invest these lines here.

Author: @wielinde totally agree with this quote add. Thanks.

## Step-by-step setup instructions

The integration is available starting with Nextcloud 20 and OpenProject 12.2. To be able to configure this integration, you need to be an administrator in both Nextcloud and OpenProject instances.

**1. Add OpenProject integration app and connect the instance** - in Nextcloud

To activate your integration to OpenProject in Nextcloud, navigate to the built-in app store under your user name in _Your apps_. You can use the search field in the top right corner to look for OpenProject integration app. Click the button **Download and enable**.

![Nextcloud_app_store](Nextcloud_app_store.png)

Once the OpenProject integration app is downloaded and enabled, you can access it through the side menu and enter the host URL of your desired OpenProject instance.

![Nextcloud_host](3_2_01 -NC_Step_1.png)

Click on the **Save** button and open your OpenProject instance in a new tab.

**2. Introduce the basic information of your integration** - in OpenProject

> Make sure you are logged in as an administrator in your OpenProject instance. Navigate to *File storages* from the Administration page. To start configuring new Nextcloud integration, click on the **Add** (+) button to add a new file storage.

Author: Hi @psatyal,
I think a "your" is missing after the "configuring".

![Storage_basic_information](3_0_01-OP_General_Info.png)

Once you fill the mandatory fields, click on the *Save and continue setup* button.

**3. Generate and copy the OpenProject OAuth values** - in OpenProject and Nextcloud

In this step, the OpenProjects OAuth values are generated automatically. These values are needed to allow the connection from OpenProject to Nextcloud. You will need to copy them the Nextcloud integration window in a new tab (without exiting or closing your OpenProject tab) and pasting the values in the respective fields under _OpenProject OAuth settings_.

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** The information OpenProjects OAuth values (client ID and client secret) are not accessible again after you close the window. Please make sure to copy the values in the Nextcloud OpenProject Integration settings.

![OP_OAuth_values](3_1_00-OP_OAuth_application_details.png)

![Nextcloud_OP_OAuth_values](3_2_03-NC_Step_2.png)

Once you have copied the values, click on the *Save* button to proceed to the next step in Nextcloud.

**4. Generate and copy the Nextcloud OAuth values** - in Nextcloud and OpenProject

> As in the previous step, the OAuth values are generated automatically, but this time on the Nextcloud end. These are needed to allow the connection From Nextcloud to OpenProject to function, so you will need to once again copy them. Copy these values from Nextcloud to OpenProject (without closing the Nextcloud tab). If you had not clicked on the *Done. Continue setup* button from in previous step, you can now do so to see the screen where you will be able to paste the Nextcloud OAuth values in OpenProject.

Author: Hi @psatyal,
In the last sentence after *Done. Continue setup* button, is it correct "from in previous step"? Shouldn't it be something like "in the previous step"?

![Nextcloud_NC_OAuth_values](3_2_04-NC_Step_3.png)

![OpenProject_NC_OAuth_values](3_3_01-OP_OAuth_application_details.png)

Once the values are copied, you can click the button *Save and complete setup* in your OpenProject tab and the *Yes, I have copied these values* in Nextcloud. Once this is done, your instance configuration is completed.

![OpenProject_success](3_4_00 - OAuth - OP Success.png)

![Nextcloud_success](3_2_05-NC_Success.png)

**5. Enable the file storages module and activate it in the desired project** - in OpenProject

Now that the integration setup is complete and ready to use, there is just one more step for you the administrator: you need to activate the *File storages* module and specify for which projects you would like to enable your new Nextcloud integration.

> To activate the module, go to the *Project settings* in the desired project and access the Modules menu entry in the side menu. There, activate the "File storages" module. Once this is done, a new menu entry called "File storages" appears at the bottom, where you can select your new Nextcloud integration.

Author: Hi @psatyal,

I have the feeling that removing the part of the menu makes the sentence unclear (the bottom of the content? bottom of the complete screen?) I would like to keep the menu or the side menu there to make it clear.

Reviewer: Hi @marcalcobe, just fixed this in a separate commit.
